We're in Genesis 45.
God bless you students of the word to come out for the word of the Lord.
And Joseph gives us this picture and every week I almost want to do a deep dive on it where he's 25% of the book of beginnings.
Genesis, God did that for a reason.
And you know, I don't know what you might be going through today.
for the last decade, for the last year.
But Joseph shows us that even in the hardest of things, we know that all things work together for good, for those who love God, to those called according to His purpose.
And we'll read in Genesis 50 here in a few weeks, but as for you, you men evil against me, but God meant it for good in order to bring it about as it is this day to save many people alive.
And though there may be sin involved, God can still work through even sin as we see here to do his purpose and his will.
And it's an amazing passage that we have before us.
The title of the message is forgiveness because
We're gonna see one of the most beautiful pictures of forgiveness.
Joseph is a picture of Jesus Christ and his forgiveness for you and I, but I think there also comes a time where we get to be like Christ.
And I've said it often, you'll never be more like Jesus Christ ever than when you say, Father, forgive them.
They know not what they do.
Forgiveness, it's the heart of God.
It's very lacking in Christendom period, and Joseph takes us back.
So Father, we bless you for a message that you put before us, and I just pray, Lord, get me out of the way.
This word will speak for itself apart from man adding or taking away.
Let it all just be the purity of your word.
Let your heart be illuminated, your heart of forgiveness for us, your heart of love for us.
And then the heart that we would have, the be like Jesus, the love, forgive, show mercy, have compassion, come alongside those who are infinitely ill-deserving and take them to the God who will.
love them and help them in their time of need.
What a call we have.
In your name, amen.
So Genesis 45, wow, we're getting there.
Verse one, then Joseph.
So again, I guess I should have, they've been through their final tests.
They've come back and
Joseph did the old cup trick in the sack, their bags and it was whoever we find this cup will die and everyone else can go but in the end it was the setup and it was found in Benjamin's sack yet every last one of the boys, the brothers,
could have left, but none of them did.
They all returned and they all stood.
And here what we see is what God was doing was forging a nation.
He has united the nation.
They will not be divided.
And even 4,000 years later, we're watching Israel still stand even in the midst of all that's put against them.
And it's amazing.
No nation has ever lasted this far.
ever in the history of mankind.
And we get to read it in the newspaper, but we're really reading it in its inception in the beginning.
Yeah, it's Abraham, Isaac, the forefathers, but here it's Jacob, but it's these boys of what they did, and yet they stand together.
And so now here they are.
All that is past verse 33 of Genesis 44 read
now therefore please let your servant remain instead of the lad as a slave to my lord and let the lad go up with his brothers for how shall I go up to my father if the lad is not with me least perhaps I see the evil that would come upon my father it would kill my father is what Judah is saying verse one of Genesis 45 then Joseph could not restrain himself before all those who stood by him and he cried out
Make everyone go out for me."
So no one stood with him while Joseph made himself known to his brothers.
Joseph has reached the point, and I call it the beauty of reconciliation.
We read in John 15 of the Prodigal, and when he comes home and his father sees him afar off, the father lifts up his skirt, it was
not anything that a man of honor would do, lift his skirt, his robe, and show his legs as he would run to the returning wayward son, but it's a picture of what the Lord does for us as he
runs to us when we come back from our failings, our falling failings and all these type of things.
Well, here's the picture of Joseph in the sense his heart is running to these boys now and he can't contain himself.
He just can't go on any longer with this, you know, testing the heart and see where they're at.
Have they really changed in these 22 years since they sold him in the slavery and where their hearts at and we're watching like, boy, your heart has changed for Rachel's
sons, that's me and my brother Benjamin.
Boy, your heart has changed for our father that you couldn't bear to grieve and hurt his heart anymore.
And so here Joseph comes.
It's just this beauty of reconciliation.
I can't take it anymore.
I got to run to you.
We're going to start reconciling right here and right now.
I just put it out there.
Is there anybody you need to reconcile with?
Oh, the beauty of reconciliation when we
run to that place.
Look, you've been wanting to reconcile, and even though what you've done to me, you don't deserve it.
But to be like the Father, I'm running to you, and I'm going to bring this reconciliation.
And verse 2 goes on, and he wept aloud in the Egyptians in the house of Pharaoh
heard it and here's Joseph we're going to read weeping here again but I call it the invitation of tears there's just a brokenness that comes with the tears that
flow as we look at this, and the tears reflected, my heart's open to you.
They're going to be stunned for a while, but they have to look at why is he crying?
And then as he starts to speak, the tears are going to speak in the midst of the word.
But the first point of tears comes with Joseph as just this invitation into an intimacy with the beauty of reconciliation.
And as I pondered this, and as we pondered this, there's just something to me, and I
just go, how did Joseph do it?
How did he come and have such a heart to forgive such a heart for reconciliation, such a heart to invite them back?
Look at the vulnerability he's making himself.
Look, may we be realistic, you can never love to a degree
greater than you're willing to be made vulnerable.
If you're going to put a wall up, if you're going to put a bridge, if you're going to build a moat and you're going to put a castle that surrounds your heart, that's as deep as you'll be able to love.
But when you put down that bridge and cross over and come into that presence of reconciliation with that person, that's the depths of love that you can go to the
degree that you're willing to be made vulnerable of, you know what?
They could hurt me again.
But I'm gonna be like you right now, Lord.
I'm gonna forgive them.
I'm gonna receive them.
And if they hurt my heart again, I'm gonna trust you, Lord, that you'll heal my heart and you'll touch my heart.
But if we stay walled up, there'll never be a depths of love.
And there'll be no springing of love.
Jesus himself will say, what is it that you love those who love you?
Everyone does that.
The world does that.
But when you love,
The unlovable and those who don't love you, man, that's the love of God that's showing forth here.
But you know, as I just ponder that, I go, how did you do this, Joseph?
Because you had no scripture, you had no church, you had no biblical counselors, you had no friend that stood with you through any of this.
And then of course that says it all because the Lord stood with him.
And then I look and I say to me, you know, I don't think I wake up every morning, field and ready to be like a Joseph.
But you know what's amazing for us?
We get to sit down in the quietiveness of our American homes.
We get to open up this Word of God.
And we get to have a piece of paper and a pen in our hand and say, I'm gonna read this word till I hear from you.
I'm gonna get to sit here and I'm gonna start with, I'm just gonna praise you.
Praise is who he is.
Thanksgiving is what you've done for me.
And it's a beautiful tie in when I go, I praise you because you're your love.
I praise you because you're
always never leaving, never deserting me.
And I praise you because you are the great I am, the becoming one.
And I thank you because of the life you gave me.
I thank you because you came and you died for me.
I thank you because you're sitting with me right now.
Then we get the word to worship.
And then we get to actually put in headphones or turn on whatever your means are and just sit there for whatever that is, five minutes, 50 minutes, and just sit there and let the worship flow over.
I don't know how he did it, but all I know is what a treasure.
Lord, I thank you.
And there's one thing that is non-negotiable for me, and that's that morning to just sit with him.
and wait upon him and let him love over me.
And the key word there is waiting where I just sit and wait because as you worship and given thanks and you're reading the word, it's going to start flowing into this beautiful intimacy that will actually start talking to you, this is my love for you.
Oh, beautiful.
Joseph's amazing.
And Joseph, you can be amazing with
all that you went through and all that you didn't have at your disposal, then I too, we too, can be greatly amazing because all this that we have.
Well, verse three,
beautiful word again.
A lot of this, you know, really, it's a narrative.
You just read through it.
I don't really feel that I'm teaching whenever when I go through something like this.
What am I going to teach you, right?
What are we going to learn?
It's Egypt, it's slavery, it's history book, but then what we it's not a teaching, but it's just this devotion, the heart.
and warmth of God as we start looking at Joseph and seeing these things.
In verse three, my heart just warms again as I look at verse three that says, then Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph.
Whoo, bricks, boom.
Does my father still live?
He's about 130.
Jacob would be about 130 years old when you do all the math right now.
But his brothers could not answer him for they were dismayed in his presence.
They are speechless.
You know what I'd be thinking?
If I'm the brothers, I'm sitting there.
We just had a merry time.
We packed up, you know.
Here we are.
All these things that are playing out.
And then I would be sitting there.
And when you said, I am Joseph,
I'd have a flash of a pit of you crying up to me as we read in the prior chapter that they threw him in and had no mercy for him.
He's crying.
And what did we read?
They went and they ate lunch.
Didn't even phase them.
And now here they are.
I am Joseph.
They're stunned.
They can't speak.
They'd be thinking of the pit.
And then I would be thinking immediately.
My next thing is what methods of torture has Egypt come up with in the last 22 years?
surely I am doomed to this torture of reaping what I've just sown in these type of things.
And now if you're Benjamin, you're sitting here going, wait, what?
You guys said he was eaten by wild beasts.
And now Benjamin's here in this for the first time himself.
But
The amazing thing, Joseph's running the reconciliation.
He's weeping with tears.
So the tears start immediately breaking them down of these are tears of just compassion and love.
We don't weep tears in anger.
The tears come from something's breaking inside the heart.
And then what does he say?
Of all these things, does my father still live?
Again, what a picture, Joseph, a picture of Jesus Christ are greater than Joseph.
Jesus Christ would say, he's always thinking of the Father.
Joseph, for 22 years, has been thinking of the Father.
John 8.29, and when I read these, I want you to think about this, just hitting some
short points of along the way as we read through this narrative of, you want a great prayer prompt, you want some great prayer points, write this down and pray this every morning, John 829, and he who sent me is with me.
The Father has not left me alone, for I always do the things that please the Father.
Father, what can I do today to please you?
You're giving me
a clean slate of 24 hours.
I might sleep for eight of them.
I might sleep for only four of them, but you're given me 24 hours a new day in which is promised your mercies are new every day.
Great is your mercy and your compassion.
Fail me not every day.
And so Lord, what can I do today to please the Father?
You sit there.
And you do that before you leave for your day.
I will promise you this.
You sit long enough, God will tell you.
And sometimes it's going to be something as simple as in everything that you do, do it all for my glory today.
I get it.
We go into the workplace and I'm not going to grumble.
gossip.
I'm not going to slander.
I'm going to praise you in front of my coworkers.
I'm going to say, God is good and all these type of things.
Oh Lord, what can I do to please you?
Love your spouse.
What am I going to do?
Lord, what can I do to please you?
Just sit and spend this time with me.
John 519, then Jesus answered and said to them, most assuredly I say to you, the son can do nothing of himself, but what he sees the Father do.
For whatever he does, the son also does in like manner.
You know, it's awesome about this verse because, you know, be Thomas, you know, show us the Father and it will suffice.
And Jesus would say, he who has seen the Father has seen me.
He's talking the mystery of the Trinity Father, Son, Holy Spirit, but you know what?
He's also talking to us.
If you want to know the heart of God, if you want to know the heart of the Father, all I got to do is go to the Gospels and say, how did you handle this when you were revolved?
Lord, how did you handle this when you were disrespected?
Lord, how did you handle this when you were
drawn and people came and loved upon you.
Lord, how did you handle the woman who just lost her son?
Lord, how did you handle the brothers or the two sisters who just lost their brother?
And then all the same, we look at Jesus and we know how the Father's heart is.
And Jesus is saying to us, everything I do, this is what I've seen the Father.
So somehow in heaven, the heart of the Father is responding in the heavenly realm as we see how Jesus responded in the earthly realm, and I'll tell you what, anyone here today, have you lost a loved one in your heart's breaking?
Maybe you've lost the love of your life, and it wasn't through the loss of life.
Maybe there's a child that's gone wayward, all the ways that we've seen Jesus, and we opened up with John 15,
the Father, running to the prodigal, coming home, and we go, this is how the Father is behaving, or, you know, what's unfolding in heaven, the heart of the Father.
He's not just sitting there stoic on a throne.
There is an emotion in heaven that is pouring out there at the throne of God as the Father is, and Jesus showed us what the heart of the Father is.
And then for us, it's easy.
And I just take this great rest.
John 15, 5, I am the vine.
You are the branches.
He who abides in me and I in him bears much fruit.
For without me, you can do nothing.
Kind of goes back to what we had just been talking about in that
I don't have to, I don't have to grunt it up.
I don't have to whip it up.
I don't have to, you know, charismatic.
It cares mania it up.
All I have to do is just simply be attached to the vine.
Lord, I'm going to spend this time with you praising and thanksgiving and confessing.
How can I please you?
And just by the natural connection of fruit with branches, the fruit's going to grow and the fruit's going to become harvestable.
And so we don't have to wrestle with that.
And as I said, pray for me going to Nepal.
I'll just be honest with you.
The group that we have here, we all know each other.
And I'm just me.
And there's a continual part of me going, why me?
I'm going to go meet with 100 pastors.
And I'm going to sit with 100 pastors.
And I sit there and go, why would you send me to go minister to these men?
And it was even this morning, I'm sitting like, I'm two weeks away, I'm literally on site in two weeks.
And I just felt a confidence and blessing of the Lord, all that you need to do is be attached to me and go and lead them into my presence.
Take them to the throne of grace and then you will give them everything that they need.
I go, I can do that.
Can I go and be like some of the radio guys that you listen to and just amazing minds of how they can weave all the scriptures and all those things?
And Lord's like, that's not what I'm asking you to do.
You just go, be attached to me and take them into my throne and tell them it's that simple.
Whether it's pastors or anybody else who follows the Lord, it's just that simple.
Just stay attached to the vine.
How can I please you father?
And then sit and wait in his presence and he will take care of the rest for us.
Well, verse four and five, the insider information here.
And Joseph said to his brothers, please come near to me so they came near.
Then he said, I am Joseph your brother.
Second time, okay, I think that's what you said.
Because if you said that to the first time, I'd be here and mind you, he just shocked him because all the while leading up to this, he was speaking to them through an interpreter.
Now there he is, boom, I'm speaking in Hebrew.
And so they might have just heard, I am Joseph.
and they didn't hear anything else, or they heard, they didn't hear I am Joseph, they heard brother, and they're like, so he's repeating it, making it clear, but here's the insider information, because they can sit there and go, is this really Joseph?
I mean, I'm looking at you, you're dressed in this Egyptian garb, you don't look anything like the Joseph that I know, it's 22 years later, you got the whole shaved head, the yo-brenner look going on there, the mascara, the clean robe, anything but a Hebrew robe and these type of things, and then you said,
Your brother, and I'm going, ah, and then he says, whom you sold into Egypt.
There's only 10 people in that room, 11.
Count Joseph.
Benjamin doesn't know this.
So many 10 people in that room who knew that information.
Jacob doesn't know it, we know, because he's going to say, well, at the end of this chapter, wait, what?
Joseph's alive, pack up, I'm going.
I don't think they ever told their wives.
They surely never told anyone else.
This is just between them 10 that they've done this.
And Joseph is giving insider information that they have to go.
Everyone else in the world thinks he was eaten destroyed by a wild beast.
There's only 10 people in the world who knew that he was sold into Egypt.
And by that piece of information, they all have to go.
There's nothing more to ponder.
This is Joseph, our brother.
Verse five, but now
do not therefore be grieved or angry with yourself because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life."
And in a blink, he goes from being the number two man in the land, which in this case of the famine and at the time the greatest world empire,
Therefore he's the second greatest in the world.
He goes from being number two in the world to being a brother.
just like that.
They don't recognize them.
Last time we saw you, we took your robe and we threw you in a pit and you were crying and weeping.
And it just makes me ponder and the beauty of it, the thought of it.
What was it like?
So here's it for them.
You don't look anything like the last, you are a new man, a different person.
And now it makes me think of the disciples on the third day.
Go on, wait.
What?
The last time I saw you, your robe was ripped, taken from you.
You were hanging on a cross in, I think, nothing but at best his undergarment.
And you couldn't speak because your tongue was clung, tied to your
roof of your mouth because of the dehydration that you've been through and the beating your face was pulverized, your beard and your hair was plucked.
And now here it is, I stand before you and your hair is kempt, your wounds are healed except for the scars in your hands.
You're robed in righteousness, and you're speaking to me in a language that I can understand.
Imagine what that must have been like for them, and you know what?
It's going to be like that for us.
When we reach Heaven, sure, we're going to be amazed.
All that we've been through and all that we waited, we're going to go.
There's our resurrected Savior, man.
If He's running to me, He'd better have some heavenly quick feet because
I'm thinking I can close the distance pretty quick.
When I see him, I am going to be full speed like you did it.
You did it.
You got me here.
I don't know how you did it, but you did it.
And he says to them, grieve not.
He's basically saying, you don't have to be grieved.
Look through my tears.
Remember, there's tears flowing right now.
Grieve not.
He's saying, I forgive you.
I love you.
I just want to be one with you.
For if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our hearts and knows all things.
And so here He is not condemning them, giving them this invitation to come
to life and intimacy and oneness with them and through the tears.
And then he says this really when you think about verse five again, but now do not therefore be grieved or angry with yourself because you sold me here.
So twice, he makes sure that's clear.
For God sent me before you to preserve life, hey, don't be angry with yourself.
Don't sit and start judging yourself.
And boy, is that not us so many times.
I know I'm forgiven.
I know you ran to me.
I know you restored me, redeemed me, gave me this new life.
And I believe that, but I can still go back in time and go, man, but the things that I did and how did I do such things?
And the Lord would speak,
As Joseph is speaking to these brothers, so does the Lord speak to us.
Father, forgive them.
They know not what they do.
From the cross, that means nothing at the moment.
It means everything after the resurrection.
Father, forgive them.
I heard him say that.
I heard him say they know not what they do.
He's given me the
freedom of forgiveness of ignorance.
I did what I didn't know was the right thing to do.
I did the wrong thing.
Acts 3, 17, Peter would say, yet now, brethren, I know that you did it in ignorance.
as did also your rulers.
Acts 1730, truly the times of ignorance got overlooked but now commands all men everywhere to
repent.
What a beautiful word.
Just like, hey, these things you're doing.
You didn't know what you were doing, but I'll still forgive you of those.
You don't need to hang yourself on those things and beat yourself up on these things.
But what I want to say to anyone today and listening today and pondering these things today, the freedom of forgiveness can only come through the commitment of repentance.
You did it in ignorance, the things you're doing in ignorance, I will forgive you, but now you're aware, and I've told you, and I made it clear to you.
So Joseph's saying to these brothers, you didn't know what you did.
You did it in ignorance.
God was doing something.
I'm forgiving you of this.
He's forgiving the ignorance of their past, and the Lord would speak.
But Joseph's going to speak to these brothers, but now you know,
And now here the Lord would speak to anyone and all of us today, but now you know, and now it's time to repent.
Without repentance, there is no forgiveness as sin.
I forgive you, but now here's what you know needs to be done.
And as we always say, and here we are, the freest man in the room is Joseph.
All of them that are in the room, these 11 brothers, the freest man in the room is the man
who forgave.
The freest man in the room is the one and here's the key.
God sent me ahead to preserve.
The freest man in the room was the one who believed in the sovereignty of God.
You see that?
When we don't believe in the sovereignty of God and when hard times come upon our life and we find ourselves in the midst of some situation and we
We can find ourselves in bondage.
We can find ourselves in tomed on an island or whatever that may look like until we come and go, you know what, Lord?
I trust your sovereignty.
I trust that all things will work together for good for those who love God and called according to His purpose.
Lord, I know I'm called according to Your purpose.
I know You didn't just save me, but You set me apart because You have something for me in this world that I'm going through until I see You
face to face that heaven's sure.
And Lord, I'm just going to trust the sovereignty even though all these things, whatever your thing may be.
Someone's hurt you.
Someone has wronged you.
Maybe there's the ill of a fallen world.
Maybe it's a financial burden because of some situation that's nothing to do with yours.
Even if it is something that you brought upon yourself, even in this verse and even with what we read, God says, but I will forgive you.
what you did in ignorance or what you're failing.
I'll forgive you of these things.
I'll just turn.
Come and let's do this and let's move on.
And this is what Joseph's saying.
Let's move on.
It's time to go forgenation.
It's time for what God has next for us and just a word for anyone today.
The freest man in the room is Joseph.
even though he went from a pit to the palace, even though he went and spent those 13 years in ruthless prisons and under slavery and on the oppression that he went through.
And yet he found his freedom in the sovereignty of God and he's able to give this forgiveness to these brothers and what I would ask you to ponder today.
Will you free them?
These brothers before Joseph, they're free men now.
They can just leave all of them.
Will you free that person in your life with forgiveness?
There's people that have wronged you, they've hurt you, and they are waiting
They know they've wronged you, and I'm talking about the people that have repented before you, and they're waiting for mercy.
Will you free them with forgiveness?
What does that look like?
That will be between you and the Lord.
How do I free them with forgiveness?
Do I give a phone call?
And you know what?
It might just be something as simple as a phone call or a letter.
Letter and just say, look,
I just want to tell you, I forgive you.
And I was talking to someone handful months ago who a loved one unexpectedly died prematurely.
And they said, you know, one of the greatest things that I have peace about right now is because the way they treated me when I was growing up as a child and these type of things, the greatest piece that I have was a month before they died, I got to say to them, I forgive you for what you did.
And so when they passed away, I know that I had at least settled that with them.
And then just another tip on forgiveness, the title of our message is that Joseph's forgiveness changed the world.
If Joseph did not forgive them and held bitterness and killed them and destroyed them, first round, second round, now this round,
the whole world that we live in would be changed.
God's purposes would never be stopped, of course, but I'm just saying for what we read and what we know and hear what we see, and I can put away how God's sovereignty would have worked some other way, I can look at this moment and go, Joseph's forgiveness changed the whole world.
And I believe forgiveness is that power because I know at the minimum
it will change at least one person's world.
And that one person is part of this world who then could go change one more person in this world.
Well, verse six, we'll get there, don't worry.
For these two years, famine has been in the land and there are still five years in which there will be neither plowing nor harvesting.
I love it.
I just look at these type of pictures.
Joseph's 39, you know, 39 in the Bible.
It's the picture of mercy.
From the Jews, five times I received 40 stripes minus one.
So 40 was the number of punishment, like when you got lashes, but they would hold up one in Rome and go, see, I gave you mercy.
the beauty of that is I just see Joseph's 39.
He's given this mercy to these brothers who don't deserve it.
But then when I think of Jesus, my propitiation, which means trade.
When Jesus traded places with me and he took my punishment, I should have been scourged the 40.
Jesus got no mercy.
When he was scourged,
You could be sure it was 40.
He got no mercy when he traded places with us.
And so here we see Joseph, this beautiful picture of mercy, verse seven and eight.
And God sent me before you to preserve a posterity for you and the earth and to save your lives by great deliverance.
So now it was not
You who sent me here, but God, and He's made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all His house and ruler throughout all the land of Egypt, amazing, you know, that
Pharaoh, the number one in command, Joseph was such a ministry to him and ministered to him.
It was like Joseph was the father to Pharaoh and he was the receiver.
We know Psalm 105 for you note takers, verse 17, that he sent a man before them, Joseph, who was sold in slavery.
And so we see this.
What we've been talking about is
The sovereignty of God, Joseph understood the sovereignty he understood, though maybe I didn't understand it at the moment.
I understand it now that all things work together for good for those who love God and called according to his purposes.
And I can accept that, and that's why the sovereignty of God lets me live like God in grace and mercy and peace, even when I don't understand what's going on.
But I find this as interesting as can be, again, is that
Joseph's going to live to be 110 years old, and we won't read a word of bitterness of him anywhere.
Never a word of bitterness, all that we ever read is this great compassion.
Well, verse nine through 11 reads, Hurry and go up to my father and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph, God has made me Lord of all Egypt.
Come down to me, do not tear you.
You shall dwell in the land of Goshen and you shall be near to me, you and your children and your children's children's, your flocks and your herds.
And all that you have, there I will provide verse 11 for you, at least you and your household and all that you have come to poverty.
There for there is still five years of famine.
Joseph knows what These boys don't know Pharaoh knows it and believes it that this is going to be seven years of prosperity a feasting seven years of famine And here's Joseph.
He's saying to these brothers.
I have a word of knowledge You don't know this but there's still even five more years to go and I just want to encourage you church
You know, we read the spiritual gifts, Romans chapter 12, 1 Corinthians 13 and 14, when you read these type of things, the gifts of the Spirit and Ephesians.
We all, because we study this verse by verse, chapter by chapter, we take the Bible, we look at what's going on in the world, we have words of knowledge to the rest of the world.
because the majority of the world, and you know what?
Even the churches don't know this word of knowledge.
They think everything just continues on as is one day you die and you stand in the presence of God.
We have a word of knowledge of there is a famine coming.
It's going to be seven years.
It's going to be called the great tribulation.
God will take his people who are called by his name, who have received him as Lord and Savior, and he will rapture them out of this
of this hardship to come, but seven years is gonna come upon this land.
And we have all these words of knowledge that most of the church doesn't know and the world, and then we get to give people, hey, you can do something about it.
For a Christian, you should be seeking first the kingdom of God and His righteousness.
You should be seeking what's most important, not building your house and your prosperity and securing your future, but using not that those things aren't
you know, are bad, but there's this place of, but I still have this call that I can speak to my family and my friends of, are you ready to meet him?
Because I want to save you from the famine that is to come.
So Joseph, given a word of knowledge, sadly many people today reject it, but hear these brothers
absolutely receive it and here verse 12 through 13 and behold your eyes and the land of my brother Benjamin see that it is my mouth that speaks to you so you shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt and all that you have seen and you shall hurry and bring my father down to
here.
So he is like, go tell dad that your son is doing well.
And then verse 14 and 15, then he fell on his brother Benjamin's neck and wept and Benjamin wept on his neck.
Moreover, he kissed all his brothers and wept over them.
And after that, his brothers talked to him.
Again, these prayers of tears.
You know, there's a prayer
that speaks greater than words, and it's these prayers of, he's weeping over his brother.
I could almost see Joseph, everyone that he kissed and everyone that he wept over was a prayer of its own of, Lord, I pray for Ruben, I pray for him, and Lord, that you would speak to his heart.
Lord, I pray for Judah, and you're gonna use him in a great way, and Lord, here's Benjamin before you, every one of these
kisses and prayer and weeping.
There was a prayer in itself and the beautiful picture that we see here.
But I love verse 16 through 20 is Pharaoh's going to be happy.
Like Pharaoh's like, are you serious?
This is amazing.
And I love it when the world or others who love us look on and they're blessed because we are being blessed.
And may we do that when other people have this
great moment of their life.
Now the report of it was heard in Pharaoh's house saying, Joseph's brother have come.
So it pleased Pharaoh and his servants well and Pharaoh said to Joseph, say to your brothers, do this.
load your animals into part and go to the land of Canaan.
Bring your father and your households and come to me.
I will give you the best of the land of Egypt and you will eat the fat of the land.
Now you are commanded.
Do this.
Take carts out of the land of Egypt for your little ones and your wives.
Bring your father and come.
Verse 20, and do not be concerned about your goods for the best of the land is Egypt before you.
He is loading up the carts.
We're going to pick that up next week.
as we study that and we're gonna see this.
Pharaoh's like, I love Joseph and I love so much.
I love to see Joseph blessed and Pharaoh probably knew his story at this point.
Oh, I love to hear that you're being reconciled to your family.
How can I be part of it?
I wanna help what's going on.
And then these servants are servants to Pharaoh and they're probably the same thing.
This is awesome.
I get to be part of the carts that are gonna go and pick up your family and bring them back.
This is a blessing upon to me and you can see where I'm going with it.
What a way to live when we get to come along somebody else and go, man, I just want to be part of your blessing.
You just had a baby, man.
I just want to be part of your blessing.
Man, you just got this great praise report that your kid came back from being wayward.
I just want to be part of it.
While you got, you know, you worked hard and here you are with your job situation, man, I just, this is such great news and just the beauty of these things.
And I don't think the servants were upset that they got tasked with getting the cars there probably like, this is all
I just want to be part of something in any way.
And I'll say that when it comes to missions again, by the way, what am I going to do?
Just show up.
You know, just, you know, just steer one of the carts.
I don't know what I'm going to do, but I'm going to be there.
And I know when we went to Nepal, the last time Renee was in a couple gals, we're going to teach a woman's conference.
And I was like, man, I'll just be happy to carry the suitcases.
And I would kind of, I can carry your suitcases to bless you while you get to teach.
And you know what?
God then decided, well, you know what, right?
I'm gonna send you back and now you're gonna do this and you're gonna do that.
And so just the beauty that we see.
But now verse 21 and 22, then the sons of Israel did so and Joseph gave them carts according to the command of Pharaoh and he gave them provisions for the journey.
He gave to all of them
to each man changes of garments, but the Benjamin, he gave 300 pieces of silver and five changes of garments.
Verse 21 still shows us something in it.
He's second in command, but he's still under the command of Pharaoh.
He didn't get to make his own choices of
what he wanted to do.
It was still under Pharaoh, which is an interesting thought upon that.
But he gave five, each man a change of garment, but Benjamin, he gave five changes, plus 300 pieces of silver.
And you know what?
The boys don't blink.
And you know why?
Forgiveness forgets fairness.
When you're forgiven, you could care less what any of the world considers fair.
You know what's fair?
Everybody gets five.
Everybody gets 300.
But when you've been forgiven, you go, all I care is that I'm forgiven.
I don't care what happens.
I don't care the blessings and the prosperity or anything else that happens to anyone else.
All that I care is that I'm forgiven.
And when you're blessed, I ain't looking at fairness.
I'm just looking at praise the Lord.
You're being blessed by the one who forgave you as well.
In verse 23 and 24, word for us, church, don't faint.
We're almost home.
Don't hold back verse 23 and 24.
And he sent to his father these things, 10 donkeys loaded with goods, good things of Egypt.
In 10 female donkeys loaded with green, bread, and food for his father for the journey.
Verse 24, so he sent his brothers away and they departed and he said to them, see that you do not become troubled.
Maybe your translation says, faint along the way.
And Joseph is simply saying, you're almost there.
Look, don't leave here and start
Bickering over, I can't believe we did this.
Just leave here in the joy of your forgiveness.
But also, I just love the word of don't faint.
Church, we're almost home.
And I just want to encourage you, we're not home.
And let us not get entangled by the cares of the world, get entangled by the things that distract
It's okay to have hobbies and enjoy this and these type of things.
You know, I'm not saying that, but we're almost home.
This is not the time to look back.
It's the time to keep our eyes on the cross, keep pressing through because we still got other people that we need to go and get and bring back with us.
And that's what's happening.
Go get the family and bring them down because there's five more years to go.
Verse 25.
Then they went up to Egypt and came to the land of Canaan to Jacob their father.
That's three weeks.
So lots of time to argue and bicker.
And he's saying, don't do it.
Just go get the family and get back here.
Verse 26 through 28.
And they told him saying, Joseph is still alive.
Think of that after 22 years.
And this stages us for next week's message.
And he is governor over all the land of Egypt, and Jacob's heart stood still because he did not believe him.
That word, heart stood still.
I couldn't get to the bottom of it, to be honest with you.
It means what it means.
I don't think it's poetic.
Did his heart literally stop?
Did he have a stroke, a heart attack?
Whatever it is,
his heart stood still because he didn't believe it.
And I could see after 22 years.
But when they told him all these words which Joseph had said to them and when he saw the card.
So all this that Joseph's given we would logically go, you just need enough food to get up.
to feed the people along the way, to feed your animal, then get your herd and bring it back.
What's up with the gold to change the clothes and all these fine things from Egypt because Joseph is bolstering the unbelief that he knows Jacob, his father's going to go, I can't believe it.
But then he's going to look up and see the cards and go, there has to be something more behind this.
But when they told him all the words, Joseph had said to them, and when he saw the cards, which Joseph had sent carrying, the spirit of Jacob, their father revived.
Verse 28, then Israel said, it is enough.
Joseph, my son, is still alive.
I will go and see him before I die.
And I just want to close with, well, right on time, what heartache.
We put ourselves in his place.
What pain?
What?
22 years of thinking my son was destroyed.
And you know, Jacob, he'd be like the rest of it.
If only I didn't send him.
If I did not send my Joseph to go check on the brothers, none of this would have happened.
This is all on me.
But 22 years of the pain, thinking that he was destroyed by a wild beast and all these type of things.
And he says, I'll go.
I'm 130 years old.
This is a long ride for me, but I will go at whatever it takes to get down and see my boy.
Again, Joseph can't go.
He's under command.
Whatever it takes, I'm getting there, Joseph.
Make sure that the bride is prepared.
Here's the cards.
Make sure he gets here.
And all I want to disclose with for you for hope for all of us is, this verse kind of reminds me of
Jesus, his first miracle with the marriage feast, brings out the wine, all the wine is gone, turns water in the wine, the master of the feast comes out and he said, every man at the beginning sets out the good wine and when the guests have well drunk, then the inferior, you have kept the good wine until now.
And I just want to encourage you, even if life has been wonderful,
But maybe you've been hurt or your heart has been, you know, just ached by things that have happened in your life.
There is no pain that God can heal.
And more so, when reconciliation comes, and if you will step in to free them by forgiveness and you run to reconciliation, I will tell you
Because it's the heart of God, He can save the best for last.
And all of the pain of 22 years, even if it was only 22 months left, He can take that and make those 22 months greater than the whole summation of the life before.
But there's a piece that we come and we say,
I'm going to free them with forgiveness.
I'm going to run to the reconciliation.
If I was the offending party, I am just going to ask for mercy to be come upon me.
And then we come and go, here we are back together.
Let's live like there is no tomorrow.
Let's live for the day that we have today together.
Father, we bless you and we thank you.
What a word.
We read a narrative and we just see an amazing heart of God.
And I thank you how you opened this for us to see your heart and you illuminated.
Who is our God?
You are loving, gracious, kind, merciful.
What you think of us, you wish this blessing to be upon us.
We're a count to stars.
the thoughts you have towards a still outnumber.
What do you want us to do, Lord?
That's something for each and every one of us, but I think today's message was kind of narrowed.
If that's what you're wanting us to do, to forgive someone, to love somebody, even after what they've done to us, would you give us what's next and how to?
And what can we boldly ask of you, Lord?
I ask that you would give us your spirit, you'd wrap us in your arms of love, you would give us the faith to believe that all these words and promises of God are yes and amen.
And Lord, I'm asking for my brothers and sisters, anyone whose heart has been hurt and ached and maybe whatever the case that Lord, they would know there's no pain that you can heal.
Jacob's gonna see his son.
that heart is going to be healed.
And Lord, we're going to see you.
And we know that we can live in that blessing that we're forgiven.
One day we'll see you, but until that time, Lord, may we all just live and know the peace of a Father who runs to us.
Is that what you're asking us to do?
Then Lord, I pray.
that you would lead the way in our hearts to go do what you've called us to do.
We bless you, Lord.
We love you.
We love your word.
We love the way you speak to us.
And we bless you.
And we simply love you and adore you.
In your name, amen.
Amen.